Add blog post for security pipeline tools (#994)
SovereignCloudStack/website: _i18n/en/_posts/blog/2024-09-03-security-tools-tech-preview.md

Moreover, offering detailed security reports to end-customers can significantly enhance transparency, providing them with confidence in the platform's security posture. This approach not only supports compliance efforts but also builds trust, which is essential in the competitive cloud service provider (CSP) market.

## Concept and methodology

The Automated Pentesting component of SCS introduces a comprehensive pipeline designed to enhance security across various layers of the cloud infrastructure. For Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS), tools like Greenbone Vulnerability Management (GVM) are integrated to scan for vulnerabilities in OpenStack environments, assisting in meeting security benchmarks such as the CIS Controls. For Kubernetes as a Service (KaaS), the Trivy Operator is employed to identify vulnerabilities in container images and the Kubernetes cluster state, in alignment with NIS2 requirements for maintaining the security of critical infrastructure.

> While this pipeline focuses primarily on dynamic testing and vulnerability management, it does not include tools specifically dedicated to Static Application Security Testing (SAST). However, some of the tools in the pipeline, such as Trivy, can be configured and customized to generate reports that resemble SAST output by analyzing container images and configurations for known vulnerabilities and security misconfigurations. This flexibility allows teams to tailor the tools to their specific security needs, though dedicated SAST tools would still be necessary for comprehensive source code analysis.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As this pipeline focuses primarily on dynamic testing and vulnerability management, it does not include tools specifically dedicated to Static Application Security Testing (SAST). However, some of the tools in the pipeline, such as Trivy, can be configured and customized to generate reports that resemble SAST output by analyzing container images and configurations for known vulnerabilities and security misconfigurations. This flexibility allows teams to tailor the tools to their specific security needs, though dedicated SAST tools would still be beneficial for comprehensive source code analysis.
```

Reviewer: To explain this:
- While expresses an *opposition*, but the fact that we don't include specific SAST tools is a *consequence* of our focus.
- Whether or not comprehensive source code analysis is necessary is in the eye of the reader. But it certainly is beneficial, so I suggest we use a bit more defensive wording here.

## Implementation details

The implementation of automated pentesting within SCS is designed to be both practical and effective. The code repositories are publicly available, allowing users to review and contribute to the development process. Pipelines have been implemented as a Proof of Concept (PoC) in Zuul, an open-source CI/CD system that is well-suited for complex workflows in large-scale cloud environments.

One of the challenges faced during implementation was the long runtime of certain jobs, particularly those involving Greenbone Vulnerability Management. Efforts have been made to optimize these jobs to reduce their impact on overall pipeline performance. The export functionality of Trivy Operator reports has also been streamlined, enabling easier integration with other security tools and processes, thereby ensuring ongoing alignment with regulatory requirements like CIS Controls and the NIST CSF.

## Usage

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

While the SCS team runs these tools regularly against deployed SCS test environments, the tools are meant to be set up by cloud operators (CSPs) to test the security of their own test, reference and production deployments. This way, potential misconfigurations and security issues are detected before they hit production and before evil hackers find them.

```
This is stating the obvious, but better clarify another time that the SCS team does NOT pentest the CSP's SCS clouds, but does provide tooling for the operators to pentest their own.

To utilize the automated pentesting tools in your own pipeline, you can follow the documentation provided in the [Quickstart guide](https://docs.scs.community/docs/operating-scs/components/automated-pentesting/quickstart). This guide offers detailed instructions on how to integrate the tools into your CI/CD pipeline, ensuring that your infrastructure and applications are continuously tested for vulnerabilities in line with compliance standards such as CIS Controls and NIS2.

> DefectDojo can be incorporated into your security operations workflow, providing a centralized platform for vulnerability management. By integrating DefectDojo, your team can more effectively track and prioritize security issues, ensuring that they are addressed in a timely manner and that the organization remains compliant with relevant cybersecurity regulations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
DefectDojo can be incorporated into your security operations workflow, providing a centralized platform for vulnerability management. By integrating DefectDojo, your team can more effectively track and prioritize security issues, ensuring that they are addressed in a timely manner and that the organization remains secure and complies with relevant cybersecurity regulations.
```
I see security as a goal in itself and the primary motivator for addressing security issues. Compliance with regulations is another goal, but even without regulatory challenges, keeping a platform secure must be worked on with high priority.
